.\" first draft by Larry Kollar
.TH neatroff 1
.SH NAME
neatroff \- the neatroff typesetting processor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.I neatroff
.RB [ \-m\c
.IR x ]
.RB [ \-C ]
.RB [ \-T\c
.IR dev ]
.RB [ \-F\c
.IR dir ]
.RB [ \-M\c
.IR dir ]
.RI [ files \&...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Neatroff
is an extended version of AT&T
.IR ditroff ,
supporting TrueType/OpenType fonts
and whole-paragraph formatting.
.I Neatroff
requires the user to construct the pipeline
to format a document.
For example:
.EX
.sp
cat mydoc.t | neateqn | neatroff -ms -Tutf | neatpost | ps2pdf - mydoc.pdf
.EE
.SS Extensions
The following are the most important
.I neatroff
extensions:
.IP \[bu] 3
Like GNU
.IR troff ,
.I neatroff
supports names of arbitrary length for
requests, macro names, number registers, and string variables.
.IP \[bu]
.I Neatroff
supports UTF-8 input
without the need for a preprocessor.
.IP \[bu]
The ``dir'' branch of
.I neatroff
supports right-to-left typesetting
for languages requiring it.
.IP \[bu]
To enable whole-paragraph formatting, add
.B p
in front of the adjustment specification; for example,
.B "ad pb"
fully justifies paragraphs with advanced filling.
Finally, in the ``dir'' branch,
.B "ad k"
supports Kashideh justification.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are available:
.IP "\-m \fIx\fP" 8
Loads the
.I x
macro package.
.IP "\-C"
Enables compatibility mode
with AT&T
.IR troff .
.IP "\-T \fIdev\fP"
Sets the output device.
The default is
.B utf
for PostScript.
.IP "\-F \fIdir\fP"
Sets the font directory.
The default is typically
/usr/share/neatroff/font.
.IP "\-M \fIdir\fP"
Sets the macro directory.
The default is typically
/usr/share/neatroff/tmac.
.SH FILES
.IP "/usr/share/neatroff/tmac/tmac.x" 4
The
.I x
macro package.
.IP "/usr/share/neatroff/font/*"
Output device directories.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR neatpost (1),
.IR neateqn (1),
.IR neatrefer (1),
.IR neatmkfn (1)
.IP http://litcave.rudi.ir/neatstart.pdf 4
Explains how to compile and install
.IR neatroff ,
and add new fonts.
.IP http://litcave.rudi.ir/neatroff.pdf
Describes the primary differences between
.I neatroff
and other troff-like typesetting systems.
