.\" first draft by Larry Kollar
.TH neatmkfn 1
.SH NAME
neatmkfn \- the neatroff typesetting processor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.I neatmkfn
.RB [ \-a ]
.RB [ \-o ]
.RB [ \-s ]
.RB [ \-p \~\c
.IR name ]
.RB [ \-t \~\c
.IR name ]
.RB [ \-r \~\c
.IR res ]
.RB [ \-k \~\c
.IR kmin ]
.RB [ \-b ]
.RB [ \-S \~\c
.IR scrs ]
.RB [ \-L \~\c
.IR langs ]
.RB [ \-w ]
.RI < file
.RI > output
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Neatmkfn
extracts information
from TrueType/OpenType fonts
or AFM files
and outputs font descriptions
suitable for use with
.IR neatroff .
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are available:
.IP \-a 10
Reads an AFM file (default).
.IP "\-o"
Reads a TrueType or OpenType file.
.IP "\-s"
Designates this as a special font.
.IP "\-p \fIname\fP"
Use
.I name
in place of the PostScript font name.
.IP "\-t \fIname\fP"
Sets the
.I troff
font name.
.IP "\-r \fIres\fP"
Sets the device resolution.
The default is 720 (i.e. 1/720 inch).
.IP "\-k \fIkmin\fP"
Sets the minimum amount of kerning.
The default is 0.
.IP "\-b"
Include glyph bounding boxes in the output.
.IP "\-S \fIscrs\fP"
A comma-separated list of scripts to include.
Use
.RB \[dq] "-S\~help" \[dq]
to list the available scripts in the font.
.IP "\-L \fIlangs\fP"
A comma-separated list of languages to include.
Use
.RB \[dq] "-L\~help" \[dq]
to list the available languages in the font.
.IP "\-w"
Warn about unsupported font features.
.SH FILES
.IP "/usr/share/neatroff/font/devutf/*" 4
Font description files for
.I utf
output device.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR neatroff (1),
.IR neatpost (1)
